+++
date = "2019-03-01T00:00:00+0800"
title = "CHOPS: Constant"
summary = "TouchDdesigner Deep Dive Day One, CHOPS, Constant"
authors = ["stainless"]
topics = ["TouchDesigner"]
tags = ["chops", "chop", "constant", "touchdesigner", "basics", "learning"]

[[resources]]
  src = "Constant.png"
  title = "Constant Chop"
  [resource.params]
    description = "A screenshot of touchdesigner with a constant chop feeding into a chop to top that generates a full screen solid block of color, which is currently blood orange"
+++
One thing that I like to do when trying to learn new things is to dive deep into the details. With TouchDesigner, the details are all of the available `ops` that are provided.  There are a few different types of `ops` that define textures, channels, surfaces, and other things.

For this series, I'm going to focus on the `chops` which create channels of data that you can flow into other channels, convert to textures, or do all kinds of other things.  `chops` are a great place to start because they are basically series of numbers that flow through network.

The first one that we should start with is `Constant`.  This represents a group of static channels that have no generation effect on their own besides what is set with a slider from each value. Though, static doesn't quite do it justice. Because many of the values in TouchDesigner can be driven by expressions, `Constant` allows you to consolidate your configurable and expression driven values into a single place.

For the sketch today, I have a `Constant` driving the color of a rectangle that is generated by `Chop to Top` to create a scalable full color image. I used `Layout` and `Op Viewer` to add the view of the `Constant` into the performance view.

`Constant` is a very simple `chop`, but in TouchDesigner, simple can go along way.

Download the touchdesigner file: {{< toe "constant example" >}}